05-service.md, before:

# Creating a Service
a Service is a method for exposing a network application that is running as one or more Pods in your cluster. Different from Pod, Service is a long running object. A service has an IP address and has stable fixed port. We can attach a Service to a Pod.

The Pod has a <code>label</code> which is a key value pair. The Service has a <code>selector</code> which is a key value pair to. The Service pointing to the Pod based on the match the key value pair on the <code>selector</code> and <code>lable</code>.

<img src="images/service-pod.png" alt=""  width="75%"/>

If a Service we create is designed to be access from internal cluster (such as microservice internal communication), we set the type to <code>ClusterIP</code>. On the other hand if we design it to be accessible from outside cluster, set the type to <code>NodePort</code>/.

The port that is allowed in Kubernetes cluster is greater than 30000

Let's create a <code>service.yaml</code>
``` yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: fleetman-webapp
  namespace: default
spec:
  # This defines which pods are going to be represented by this service
  # The service becomes a network endpoint for either other services
  # or maybe external users to connect to (browser)
  selector:
    app: webapp # # can be any selector according to the label defined in pod ex: myapp:webapp
  ports:
  - name: http
    port: 80
    # the nodeport should be greater than 30000
    nodePort: 30080 
  type: NodePort
```

``` bash
kubectl apply -f service.yaml
```
Once the service created, check the status of serice and get ip of node (in this case we use minikube).

<img src="images/access-app-from-outside.png" alt="" width="75%"/>

Then open browser:
http://192.168.59.100:30080

<img src="images/open-app-0.png" alt="" width="75%"/>


# Updating Version of App

Let's assume we want to update app to a new release, from <code>richardchesterwood/k8s-fleetman-webapp-angular:release0</code> to <code>richardchesterwood/k8s-fleetman-webapp-angular:release0-5</code>

In this example we will add additional label called <code>release</code> and a new Pod named <code>webapp-release-0-5</code> which represent a new release app.

``` yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: webapp
  labels:
    app: webapp # can be any label ex, myapp: webapp
    release: "0" # should be a string
spec:
  containers:
  - name: webapp
    image: richardchesterwood/k8s-fleetman-webapp-angular:release0

---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: webapp-release-0-5
  labels:
    app: webapp # can be any label ex, myapp: webapp
    release: "0-5" # should be a string
spec:
  containers:
  - name: webapp
    image: richardchesterwood/k8s-fleetman-webapp-angular:release0-5
```
For service, we also add additional selector
``` yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: fleetman-webapp
  namespace: default
spec:
  # This defines which pods are going to be represented by this service
  # The service becomes a network endpoint for either other services
  # or maybe external users to connect to (browser)
  selector:
    app: webapp # # can be any selector according to the label defined in pod ex: myapp:webapp
    release: "0" # if we change this to "0-5" the service will point to app version 0-5. It is very fast without downtime.
  ports:
  - name: http
    port: 80
    # the nodeport should be greater than 30000
    nodePort: 30080 
  type: NodePort
```

Let's apply the <code>pod.yaml</code> and <code>service.yaml</code>
``` bash
kubectl apply -f pod.yaml 
kubectl apply -f service.yaml 
```

Once the second Pod <code>webapp-release-0-5</code> up, we can change the <code>release</code> value from <code>"0"</code> to <code>"0-5"</code> in the service. The changes in release in Service will pointing it to app version 0-5. It is very fast without downtime.

<img src="images/service-pod-change-selector.png" alt="" width="75%"/>

We can check further in the detail service information

<img src="images/service-info-change-selector.png" alt="" width="75%"/>


If we refresh/force reload browser (http://192.168.59.100:30080), it will load the new release of app (version 0-5).

Commit message:

add tips command by label

05-service.md, after:

# Creating a Service
a Service is a method for exposing a network application that is running as one or more Pods in your cluster. Different from Pod, Service is a long running object. A service has an IP address and has stable fixed port. We can attach a Service to a Pod.

The Pod has a <code>label</code> which is a key value pair. The Service has a <code>selector</code> which is a key value pair to. The Service pointing to the Pod based on the match the key value pair on the <code>selector</code> and <code>lable</code>.

<img src="images/service-pod.png" alt=""  width="75%"/>

If a Service we create is designed to be access from internal cluster (such as microservice internal communication), we set the type to <code>ClusterIP</code>. On the other hand if we design it to be accessible from outside cluster, set the type to <code>NodePort</code>/.

The port that is allowed in Kubernetes cluster is greater than 30000

Let's create a <code>service.yaml</code>
``` yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: fleetman-webapp
  namespace: default
spec:
  # This defines which pods are going to be represented by this service
  # The service becomes a network endpoint for either other services
  # or maybe external users to connect to (browser)
  selector:
    app: webapp # # can be any selector according to the label defined in pod ex: myapp:webapp
  ports:
  - name: http
    port: 80
    # the nodeport should be greater than 30000
    nodePort: 30080 
  type: NodePort
```

``` bash
kubectl apply -f service.yaml
```
Once the service created, check the status of serice and get ip of node (in this case we use minikube).

<img src="images/access-app-from-outside.png" alt="" width="75%"/>

Then open browser:
http://192.168.59.100:30080

<img src="images/open-app-0.png" alt="" width="75%"/>


# Updating Version of App

Let's assume we want to update app to a new release, from <code>richardchesterwood/k8s-fleetman-webapp-angular:release0</code> to <code>richardchesterwood/k8s-fleetman-webapp-angular:release0-5</code>

In this example we will add additional label called <code>release</code> and a new Pod named <code>webapp-release-0-5</code> which represent a new release app.

``` yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: webapp
  labels:
    app: webapp # can be any label ex, myapp: webapp
    release: "0" # should be a string
spec:
  containers:
  - name: webapp
    image: richardchesterwood/k8s-fleetman-webapp-angular:release0

---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: webapp-release-0-5
  labels:
    app: webapp # can be any label ex, myapp: webapp
    release: "0-5" # should be a string
spec:
  containers:
  - name: webapp
    image: richardchesterwood/k8s-fleetman-webapp-angular:release0-5
```
For service, we also add additional selector
``` yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: fleetman-webapp
  namespace: default
spec:
  # This defines which pods are going to be represented by this service
  # The service becomes a network endpoint for either other services
  # or maybe external users to connect to (browser)
  selector:
    app: webapp # # can be any selector according to the label defined in pod ex: myapp:webapp
    release: "0" # if we change this to "0-5" the service will point to app version 0-5. It is very fast without downtime.
  ports:
  - name: http
    port: 80
    # the nodeport should be greater than 30000
    nodePort: 30080 
  type: NodePort
```

Let's apply the <code>pod.yaml</code> and <code>service.yaml</code>
``` bash
kubectl apply -f pod.yaml 
kubectl apply -f service.yaml 
```

Once the second Pod <code>webapp-release-0-5</code> up, we can change the <code>release</code> value from <code>"0"</code> to <code>"0-5"</code> in the service. The changes in release in Service will pointing it to app version 0-5. It is very fast without downtime.

<img src="images/service-pod-change-selector.png" alt="" width="75%"/>

We can check further in the detail service information

<img src="images/service-info-change-selector.png" alt="" width="75%"/>

> ### Tips
> We can search/list Pod by filtering on the command
> ``` bash
> kubectl get pod --show-labels -l release=0-5
```

If we refresh/force reload browser (http://192.168.59.100:30080), it will load the new release of app (version 0-5).
